1. Architecture and Azure service choices
The system comprises an ASP.NET Core HTTP API front-end and a background worker hosted on Azure Container Apps or
a Linux VM Scale Set, both authenticated via Microsoft Entra managed identity. The API accepts document metadata
and a validated blob reference but never ingests content directly, deferring processing to a decoupled Azure
Service Bus queue. This design ensures rapid response times by persisting the request intent before queuing. Azure
Table Storage serves as the authoritative store for idempotency keys and processing status, chosen for its atomic
operations and low-latency access required for concurrency control. Blob storage holds the actual documents, with
access strictly controlled via SAS tokens or container-level policies rather than public access, ensuring the
worker can retrieve content only when authorized.

2. C#/.NET module and API design
The solution follows a clean architecture pattern with distinct layers: Infrastructure, Domain, Application, and
Presentation. The Presentation layer exposes a single REST endpoint accepting the idempotency key and blob
reference. The Application layer orchestrates the workflow, ensuring the idempotency check occurs atomically
before any message is enqueued. The worker implements the "claim" pattern: upon polling the queue, it attempts to
acquire an exclusive lease on the processing record in Table Storage. If the lease succeeds, the worker
transitions the state to `Processing` and executes the business logic; otherwise, it releases the claim and
retries later. This guarantees that no two workers process the same document instance simultaneously, preventing
duplicate external side effects.

3. Data, identity, and idempotency design
Idempotency relies on a composite key in Table Storage combining the request ID and the provided stable
idempotency token. Before enqueuing, the API performs an optimistic update; if a record with this key exists in
`Completed` or `Processing` states, it returns the existing result immediately without creating a duplicate queue
message. State transitions are strictly enforced: `Pending` to `Processing`, `Processing` to `Completed` or
`Failed`. Lease expiry logic ensures that if a worker crashes mid-operation, the lease eventually expires,
allowing another instance to claim and resume or fail the process safely.

Identity is managed exclusively via Microsoft Entra managed identities. The API requires the `Azure Service Bus
Data Sender` role for the queue, while the worker requires `Azure Service Bus Data Receiver`, `Data Owner` (for
table access during state updates), and `Storage Blob Reader` on the specific source container. Authorization
validates that the submitted blob reference falls within a pre-defined allowed scope or tenant before acceptance,
preventing unauthorized cross-container access attempts.

4. Failure handling and operations
The system implements configurable retry policies with exponential backoff for transient failures. Once the retry
limit is exceeded, the message is moved to the Dead-Letter Queue (DLQ). DLQ ownership is explicit: only an
authorized administrative process or a dedicated monitoring worker can inspect these messages. Inspection criteria
include failure count, error codes, and payload size. A manual replay procedure is defined where operators
validate the root cause and trigger a re-queue of valid messages; automatic replay of poison messages is strictly
prohibited to prevent infinite loops or repeated failures. Structured logging includes correlation IDs across all
components, enabling end-to-end traceability via Application Insights. Health checks expose endpoint status and
queue depth metrics for operational dashboards.

5. Test strategy
The testing approach focuses on unit tests for domain logic, specifically verifying state transition rules and
idempotency behaviors under race conditions. Integration tests utilize Azure Storage Emulator or local containers
to validate Service Bus enqueuing, lease acquisition, and DLQ routing against real Azure SDKs. Contract testing
ensures the API response format matches client expectations. A critical focus is simulating transient network
failures and worker crashes to verify that state transitions remain consistent and no duplicate side effects occur
in the presence of retries.

6. Risks, assumptions, and open decisions
The primary risk is Table Storage contention during high-throughput spikes, potentially impacting idempotency
latency; this requires monitoring partition key design for hot partitions. We assume managed identities are
correctly configured with minimal permissions across all hosts. An open decision involves the specific TTL for
lease expiration; it must balance between allowing sufficient time for slow processing and ensuring rapid recovery
from worker failures. Finally, we assume blob references remain valid throughout the processing window; if a blob
is deleted externally during processing, the worker must handle this as a fatal error requiring manual
intervention rather than retry.

total duration:       1m47.3499397s
load duration:        1m12.5164228s
prompt eval count:    434 token(s)
prompt eval duration: 1.863555s
prompt eval rate:     232.89 tokens/s
eval count:           912 token(s)
eval duration:        32.953555999s
eval rate:            27.68 tokens/s
